how can you use color schemes to make
your business your creative creations
and your home decor pop today I'm gonna
give you the knowledge that you need to
take your use of color to the next level
today I'm going to teach you how to
create effective color schemes color can
affect our mood and how we feel about
everything around us when you understand
how color can affect your head space you
can consciously manipulate color to
serve your creations whether you're
playing this information to your home
decor your branding or your personal
artwork one of the most important parts
of getting all of this right is knowing
the basics of color theory now I know
this might be a review for some of you
but please bear with me because without
this crucial knowledge you won't be able
to move on to more advanced concepts
first you have your standard primary
colors red yellow and blue
from there you can mix these colors
together to get your secondary colors
orange green and purple next you'd mix
the primary colors and the secondary
colors to get the tertiary colors these
don't have special names so I'm gonna
name them for you
red orange hashtag James red pants
yellow orange honey butter yellow green
lime light green blue Enchanted Forest
blue purple deadly nightshade and red
purple passionate plum
that's our basic color wheel now if we
split that wheel in half we got our warm
colors and we got our cool colors and we
can see that red and green stand on that
divide they can be either warm or cool
and then we have hue and that's just
what the color is their saturation which
is how intense the color it is and the
value is how light or dark your color is
when you mix opposite or
elementary colors you get a neutral
color I'm going to do a whole video in
the future about how to effectively use
neutral tones so subscribe below to
catch that video when it comes out using
these three variables hue saturation and
value you can create literally any color
you want it's totally awesome oh I'm so
glad that's over now that we've covered
our basics we can move into color scheme
your color scheme really is gonna depend
on what kind of instinctual feelings you
want to bring up in your viewer first
you have your basic monochromatic color
scheme this consists of using different
values of the same hue this one's a safe
bet and it's easy to apply in your life
and your business this color scheme ends
up feeling soothing and authoritative
but it might also end up feeling less
vibrant because you're only using one
color for any analogous color schemes
use colors that are next to each other
on the color wheel you find this color
pattern in nature a lot for example in
the leaves of a tree and our eyes find
it pleasing and soothing it ends up
feeling really bright and it can
accommodate a wide variety of moods and
spaces make sure to choose one color and
use other colors to support that one
color finally complementary color
schemes use color sets from opposite
sides of the color wheel these color
schemes tend to be really dynamic and
hold our attention for much longer
it can also be a little bit more
challenging to work with and can yield a
wide range of results and just a quick
warning if you decide to go down this
path
don't use highly saturated complementary
colors right next to one another when
you do this the colors fight for
attention in our eyeballs and it can be
almost painful and certainly distracting
to look at so unless you really want to
make your audience uncomfortable you
should do your best to avoid
so there was a rundown of some basic
color schemes and how to use them to
modify user mood and experience want to
learn more head over to Rachel Ralston
uncom for more information on creating
custom color palettes bring your
questions comments and requests for
future videos over to my sites and
follow the link in the description for
your free gift thank you so much and
I'll talk to you soon